Comcast Corporation, formerly known as Comcast Holdings, is an American multinational mass media corporation that works in telecommunications and entertainment. It is headquartered at the Comcast Center in Philadelphia. Comcast is the third-largest broadcasting and cable television company worldwide by revenue (behind China Mobile and Verizon). It is the third-largest pay-TV company, the second-largest cable TV company by subscribers, and the largest home Internet service provider in the United States. In 2023, the company was ranked 51st in the Forbes Global 2000.
Comcast is additionally the nation's third-largest home telephone service provider. It provides services to U.S. residential and commercial customers in 40 states and the District of Columbia. As the owner of NBCUniversal since 2013, Comcast is also a high-volume producer of films for theatrical exhibition and television programming, and a theme parks operator. It is the fourth-largest telecommunications company by worldwide revenue.  Comcast owns and operates the Xfinity residential cable communications business segment and division; Comcast Business, a commercial services provider; and Xfinity Mobile, an MVNO of Verizon Communications.
Comcast is also the owner and operator of over-the-air national broadcast network channels through NBCUniversal, such as the National Broadcasting Company (one of the US' Big Three television networks), Spanish-language channels Telemundo, TeleXitos, and Universo, television stations like Cozi TV, multiple cable-only channels such as MSNBC, CNBC, USA Network, Syfy, Oxygen True Crime, Bravo, and E!, film studios Universal Pictures, DreamWorks Animation, Illumination and Focus Features, the Universal Studio Group, the VOD streaming service Peacock, and Universal Destinations & Experiences. It also has significant holdings in digital distribution, such as thePlatform, which it acquired in 2006; and ad-tech company FreeWheel, which it acquired in 2014. NBCUniversal also works in news (NBC News and Noticias Telemundo) and sports (NBC Sports and Telemundo Deportes) areas, with Comcast acquiring professional sports company Spectacor in 1996. Since October 2018, Comcast is also the parent company of Sky Group after dropping out of the bid to buy 21st Century Fox, and instead acquired the stake 21CF owned, plus the rest of Sky.
Comcast is criticized and put under intense public scrutiny for a variety of reasons. Its customer satisfaction ratings were among the lowest in the cable industry during the years 2008–2010. It has violated net neutrality practices in the past and despite its commitment to a narrow definition of net neutrality, critics advocate a definition that precludes any distinction between Comcast's private network services and the rest of the Internet. Critics also point out a lack of competition in the vast majority of Comcast's service areas; in particular, the limited competition among cable providers. Given its negotiating power as a large ISP, some suspect that it could leverage paid peering agreements to unfairly influence end-user connection speeds. Its ownership of both content production (in NBCUniversal) and distribution (as an ISP) has raised antitrust concerns. These issues and others led to Comcast being dubbed "The Worst Company in America" by The Consumerist in 2010 and 2014. Comcast also failed to acquire Time Warner Cable in 2014.