International Business Machines Corporation (using the trademark IBM), nicknamed Big Blue, is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Armonk, New York and present in over 175 countries. It is a publicly traded company and one of the 30 companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. IBM is the largest industrial research organization in the world, with 19 research facilities across a dozen countries, having held the record for most annual U.S. patents generated by a business for 29 consecutive years from 1993 to 2021.
IBM was founded in 1911 as the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company (CTR), a holding company of manufacturers of record-keeping and measuring systems. It was renamed "International Business Machines" in 1924 and soon became the leading manufacturer of punch-card tabulating systems. During the 1960s and 1970s, the IBM mainframe, exemplified by the System/360, was the world's dominant computing platform, with the company producing 80 percent of computers in the U.S. and 70 percent of computers worldwide.
IBM debuted in the microcomputer market in 1981 with the IBM Personal Computer, — its DOS software provided by Microsoft, which became the basis for the majority of personal computers to the present day. The company later also found success in the portable space with the ThinkPad. Since the 1990s, IBM has concentrated on computer services, software, supercomputers, and scientific research; it sold its microcomputer division to Lenovo in 2005. IBM continues to develop mainframes, and its supercomputers have consistently ranked among the most powerful in the world in the 21st century. In 2018, IBM along with 91 additional Fortune 500 companies had "paid an effective federal tax rate of 0% or less"  as a result of Donald Trump´s Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.
As one of the world's oldest and largest technology companies, IBM has been responsible for several technological innovations, including the Automated Teller Machine (ATM), Dynamic Random-Access Memory (DRAM), the floppy disk, the hard disk drive, the magnetic stripe card, the relational database, the SQL programming language, and the Universal Product Code (UPC) barcode. The company has made inroads in advanced computer chips, quantum computing, artificial intelligence, and data infrastructure. IBM employees and alumni have won various recognitions for their scientific research and inventions, including six Nobel Prizes and six Turing Awards.