JPMorgan Chase & Co. (stylized as JPMorganChase) is an American multinational finance corporation headquartered in New York City and incorporated in Delaware. It is the largest bank in the United States, one of the top five largest banks in the world by total assets, and the world's largest bank by market capitalization as of 2024. As the largest of the Big Four banks in America, the firm is considered systemically important by the Financial Stability Board. Its size and scale have often led to enhanced regulatory oversight as well as the maintenance of an internal "Fortress Balance Sheet". The firm is headquartered in Midtown Manhattan and is set return to its former location at the new under-construction JPMorgan Chase Building at 270 Park Avenue in November 2025.
JPMorgan Chase was created in 2000 by the merger of New York City banks J.P. Morgan & Co. and Chase Manhattan Company. Through its predecessors, the firm's early history can be traced to 1799, with the founding of what became the Bank of the Manhattan Company. J.P. Morgan & Co. was founded in 1871 by the American financier J. P. Morgan, who launched the House of Morgan on 23 Wall Street as a national purveyor of commercial, investment, and private banking services. Today, the firm is a major provider of investment banking services, through corporate advisory, mergers and acquisitions, sales and trading, and public offerings. Their private banking franchise and asset management division are among the world's largest in terms of total assets. Its retail banking and credit card offerings are provided via the Chase brand in the U.S. and United Kingdom.
JPMorgan Chase is the world's fifth largest bank by total assets, with $3.9 trillion as of 2023. The firm operates the largest investment bank in the world by revenue. It occupies the 24th spot on the Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. corporations by revenue. In 2023, JPMorgan Chase was ranked #1 in the Forbes Global 2000 ranking. The company's balance sheet, geographic footprint, and thought leadership have yielded a substantial market share in banking and a high level of brand loyalty. Alternatively, it receives routine criticism for its risk management, broad financing activities, and large-scale legal settlements.