Paramount Global (d/b/a Paramount) is an American multinational mass media and entertainment conglomerate controlled by National Amusements and headquartered at One Astor Plaza in Times Square, Midtown Manhattan. The company was formed on December 4, 2019, as ViacomCBS through the merger of the second incarnations of CBS Corporation and Viacom (which were split from the original Viacom on December 31, 2005). The company took its current name on February 16, 2022.
Paramount's main properties include the namesake Paramount Pictures Corporation, the CBS Entertainment Group (consisting of the CBS and partially owned The CW television networks and television stations, BET Media Group (which oversees BET and its sister channels), and other CBS-branded assets), Paramount Media Networks (consisting of American-based cable television networks including MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, CMT, Paramount Network, and Showtime) and Paramount Streaming (including Paramount+ and Pluto TV). It also has an international division that manages international versions of its pay TV networks, as well as region-specific assets including Argentina's Telefe, Chile's Chilevisión, the United Kingdom's Channel 5, and Australia's Network 10. From 2011 to 2023, the division also owned a 30% stake in the Italian Rainbow S.p.A. studio. As of 2019, the company operates over 170 networks and reaches approximately 700 million subscribers in 180 countries.
In 2024, National Amusements held talks for a potential merger or acquisition of Paramount Global, with Warner Bros. Discovery, Sony Pictures, Apollo Global Management, Edgar Bronfman Jr., Allen Media Group, and Skydance Media all considering acquiring the company. By June 3, Paramount reportedly agreed to merger terms with Skydance. However, by June 11, merger talks between Paramount and Skydance had fallen apart, resulting in the proposed merger being called off. The companies would later re-negotiate the deal, and on July 2, 2024, Skydance reached a preliminary agreement to form "Paramount Skydance Corporation" through a 3-way merger between it, National Amusements, and Paramount.